# CP476-FinalProject

## How we compiled:
## Back-end

### sudoku.html
We used backtracking and the AC3 alogrithms to solve sudoku puzzles. As well as a random puzzle generator to continuously give users new puzzles.

### app.py
This python function contains the flask functionality that was implemented. We use get and post methods to connect the sudoku solver code to what the user has inputed in attempts to solve the sudoku puzzles. If the user completes the puzzle the code will retrieve the users answer and send it to sudoku.py to check if it is correct. If the puzzle was not solved then app.py will send the solution generated by sudoku.py to the sudoku.html to be displayed.

### app.js
Stores relevant content related to programs api.

### utilities.py
Stores the Queue functionality which is used in sudoku.py.

## Front-end
### style.css
Used to make the hmtl page look presentable.

### sudoku.html
Used to display the sudoku game and also sending what the user has wrote to sudoku.py for verification of correctness and solving.

## How to deploy:
We used heroku to deploy our python application, alongside our Node API implementation, and html body. 

We imported our project to heroku through github and then look under the deploy tab and click deploy branch and our code went live.

## How to run:
Go to this link: https://pyflask-sudoku-solver.herokuapp.com/
The code is live and you will be able to access the sudoku solver and all its features. Keep in mind that the solve button may take a couple seconds to run the code depending on the difficulty of the puzzle. On the top right of the page the sentence "Please wait while your puzzle solves..." displays to indicate that the code is still solving. when the puzzle is completely solved the message "puzzle solved!" will flash to show the code is done running.



IMPORTANT!!!:
Heroku was unable to deploy our api so it is manditory to follow step 2 in order to run locally and through the web link.

To run locally:

Step 1: Download flask into the CP476-FinalProject (aka entire project folder)
1. Open cmd
2. cd into the CP476-FinalProject or whatever it is named
3. Type in cmd: 'py -m venv env' This like will create a env folder in the project
4. To activate the env folder type in cmd: 'env\Scripts\activate'
5. to install flask into the env folder type in cmd: 'pip install flask'
6. Select flask app, type in cmd: 'set FLASK_APP=app.py'
7. Change environment to development, type in cmd: 'set FLASK_ENV=development'
8. To run the code, type in cmd: 'flask run'
9. Remember in VScode to change the python.exe interpreter location to inside the env folder.

Step 2: Run express API
1. Open cmd
2. cd into the api folder, type in cmd: 'cd C:\cp476\CP476-FinalProject\static\api'
3. type in cmd: 'npm install', To install node modules
4. type in cmd: 'npm start'


## External resources: 
Heroku is a cloud platform that we used to deploy our sudoku program.
We also used a flask development server to test our code before the deployment phase.
